DETAILED SYLLABUS FOR THE POST OF LD CLERK [KWA],
COMPUTER PROGRAMMER -CUM-OPERATOR, TIME KEEPER,
SECURITY OFFICER
Distribution of Marks and Detailed Syllabus
I. General Knowledge Marks
i. History 5
ii. Geography 5
iii. Economics 5
iv. Indian Constitution 5
v. Kerala – Governance and System of Administration 10
vi. Life Science and Public Health 6
vii. Physics 3
viii. Chemistry 3
ix. Arts, Literature, Culture, Sports 5
x. Basics of Computer 3
xi. Important Acts 5
II. Current Affairs 15
III. Simple Arithmetic, Mental Ability and Reasoning 10
IV. General English 10
V. Regional Language (Malayalam, Kannada,
Tamil)
10
Detailed Syllabus
I. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE
(i) HISTORY (5 Marks)
KERALA - Arrival of Europeans-Contributions of Europeans- History of
Travancore from Marthanda Varma to Sree Chithirathirunnal- Social and
Religious Reform movement- National movement in Kerala- Literary Sources of
Kerala History- United Kerala Movement- Political and Social History of Kerala
after 1956.
INDIA – Political History- Establishment of the British- First War of
Independence – Formation of INC- Swadeshi Movement- Social Reform
movement- Newspapers - Literature and Arts during the freedom struggle –
Independence Movement & Mahathma Gandhi - India’s independent –
Post independent period - State reorganization – Development in Science,
Education, and Technology – Foreign policy.
WORLD – Great Revolution in England- American War of Independence –
French Revolution- Russian Revolution – Chinese Revolution- Political History
after Second World War- UNO and other International Organizations
ii) GEOGRAPHY (5 Marks)
Basics of Geography – Earth Structure – Atmosphere, Rocks, Landforms,
Pressure Belt and Winds, Temperature and Seasons, Global Issues- Global
Warming- Various forms of Pollution, Maps- Topographic Maps and Signs,
Remote Sensing – Geographic Information System, Oceans and its various
movements – Continents, – Nations and their specific features.
INDIA – Physiography- States and its features, Northern Mountain Region,
Rivers, Northern Great Plain, Peninsular Plateau, Coastal Plain, Climate –
Natural Vegetation - Agriculture – Minerals and Industries- Energy Sources,
Transport system – Road- Water- Railways- Air.
Kerala – Physiography- Districts and its features - Rivers- Climate – Natural
Vegetation - Wild life - Agriculture and research centers – Minerals and
Industries - Energy Sources - Transport system – Road - Water- Railway- Air
(iii) ECONOMICS (5 Marks)
India : Economy, Five Year Plans, New Economic Reforms, Planning
Commission and Niti Aayog, Financial Institutions, Agriculture – Major Crops,
Green Revolution, Minerals. Direct and indirect taxes in India, GST in India-
rationale and structure of GST, benefits of GST.
(iv) INDIAN CONSTITUTION (5 Marks)
Constituent Assembly-Preamble-Citizenship- Fundamental Rights, Writs
-Habeas Corpus, Mandamus, Prohibition, Certiorari and Quo warranto.
Directive Principles of State Policy- Fundamental Duties- Structure of
Governments- Union Executive, Parliament and Judiciary- State Executive,
Legislature and Judiciary- Local Self Government Institutions (LSGIs)-
Important Constitutional Amendments (42, 44, 52, 73, 74, 86, 91, 97, 101, 102,
103, 104)- Constitutional Authorities and their functions - Comptroller and
Auditor General, Attorney General, Advocate General, Election Commission of
India, State Election Commission, Union Public Service Commission, State
Public Service Commission- Finance Commission- State Finance Commission-
GST Council- Distribution of legislative powers- Union List- State List-
Concurrent List- Services under the Union and the States- Tribunals-National
Commission for Scheduled Castes- National Commission for Scheduled Tribes-
National Commission for Backward Classes- Official Language-Regional
Languages-Language of the Supreme Court, High Courts, etc-Special directives
relating to languages
(v) Kerala Governance and System of Administration – (10 Marks)
Kerala State Civil Service- Quasi-judicial bodies, various Commissions, Basic
facts of socio-economic development- Planning Board-Commercial Planning and
Policies- Disaster Management- Watershed Management- Employment and
Labour-National Rural Employment Programmes- Land Reforms- Social
Welfare and Security- Protection of Women, Children and Senior Citizens-
Population, Literacy, E-governance, Delegated Legislation and its controls-
Legislative and Judicial controls- Constitutional law remedies against
Administrative Arbitrariness- Administrative Discretion and its Controls-
Administrative Adjudication-Principles of Natural Justice.
(vi) Life Science and Public Health (6 Marks)
1. Basic facts of Human Body
2. Vitamins and Minerals and their Deficiency Diseases
3. Communicable Diseases and Causative Organisms, Preventive and
Remedial Measures
4. Kerala – Welfare activities in Health Sector
5. Lifestyle Diseases.
6. Basic Health Facts
7. Environment and Environmental Hazards
(vii) Physics (3 Marks)
1) Branches of Physics –Matter - Units, Measurements - Physical Quantities.
2) Motion - Newton’s Laws of Motion - Third law – Momentum - Projectile
Motion - Uses of Third Law - Achievements in space missions in India-
ISRO.
3) Light- Lens, Mirrors - Problems based on r = 2f - Different phenomena of
Light - Rainbow - Colours of different materials - Electromagnetic
Spectrum – IR rays- UV rays - X rays - Photoelectric Effect.
4) Sound - Different types of Waves - Velocity of Sound in different media -
Resonance – Reverberation.
5) Force - Different types of Forces – Friction - Advantages and
disadvantages of Friction - Liquid Pressure - Buoyant Force – Archimedes
Principle - Pascal’s law – Density - Relative density- Adhesive Cohesive
forces- Capillarity - Viscous force - Surface tension.
6) Gravitation - Centripetal Force - Centrifugal Force - Escape Velocity,
Satellites - Escape Velocity - Weight Mass - value of ‘g’- 'g' in different
places.
7) Heat - Temperature - Different types of thermometers – Humidity -
Relative Humidity.
8) Work - Energy - Power - Simple problems relating to Work, Energy,
Power, Levers - Different types of Levers.
(viii) Chemistry (3 Marks)
1. Atom – Molecule - States of Matter – Allotropy - Gas laws - Aqua regia.
2. Elements - Periodic Table-Metals &Non metals-Chemical Physical
changes- Chemical reactions-Solutions, Mixtures, Compounds.
3. Metals-Non metals – Alloys – Acids, Bases - pH value - Alkaloids.
(ix) Arts, Sports, Literature and Culture (5 Marks)
Arts
1. Important Audio Visual Art Forms of Kerala- Famous Places, Institutions,
Personalities, Artistes and Writers related to origin, development, extension,
and practice of these Art Forms.
Sports
1. Famous Sports personalities of Kerala, India and World – their Sports
Events, achievements and awards.
2. Important Awards – Corresponding Fields , Winners
3. Famous Trophies – Related Events and Sports Items.
4. Number of Players in Important Sports Items.
5. Important Terms associated with various Sports and Games.
6. Olympics - Basic Facts, Venues / Countries, Famous Performances and
Personalities- India in Olympics-Winter Olympics & Para Olympics.
7. Asian Games, Afro-Asian Games, CommonWealth Games, SAF Games –
Venues, Countries, Performance of India, other facts.
8. National Games.
9. Games - Events, Players, Achievements.
10. National Sports / Games , Events of various Countries
Literature
1. Malayalam - Important Literary Movements – Icons and their first works.
2. Main works of Literature related to each movement and their authors.
3. Writers – Pen name and Nick name.
4. Famous Works and Characters.
5. Famous Quotes – Books and Authors.
6. Beginning of Journalism in Kerala – Pioneers, Journals and Publications.
7. Famous Awards/ Honours – Writers and their works.
8. Malayalam Writers who won the Jnanpith Award and related facts.
9. Malayalam Cinema - Origin, Development, Milestones, Pioneers, National
Awards.
Culture
1. Kerala - Important Celebrations -Places associated with such Celebrations,
Important Festivals.
2. Kerala – Cultural Centres, Worship Places, Cultural Leaders and their
Contributions.
(x) Basics of Computer (3 Marks)
1. Hardware
 Input Devices (Names and uses)
 Output Devices (Names and uses/features)
 Memory devices - Primary and Secondary (Examples, Features)
2. Software
 Classification – System software and Application software
 Operating System – Functions and examples
 Popular Application software packages – Word processors, Spreadsheets,
Database packages, Presentation, Image editors (Uses, features and
fundamental concepts of each)
 Basics of programming – Types of instructions (Input, Output, Store,
Control, Transfer) (Languages need not be considered)
3. Computer Networks
 Types of networks – LAN, WAN, MAN (Features and application area)
 Network Devices – Media, Switch, Hub, Router, Bridge, Gateway (Uses
of each)
4. Internet
 Services – WWW, E-mail, Search engines (Examples and purposes)
 Social Media (Examples and features)
 Web Designing – Browser, HTML (Basics only)
5. Cyber Wrongs (Awareness Level)
 Types of Cyber Wrongs (Awareness level)
 Information Technology Act, 2000 (Awareness level)
(xi) Important Acts (5 Marks)
1. Right to information: Right to Information Act, 2005- information
exempted- third party information- constitution of Information
Commissions-powers and functions
2. Right to public services: The Kerala State Right to Service Act, 2012
3. Protection of consumers: Consumer Protection Act, 2019- rights of
consumers
4. Protection of vulnerable sections: Protection of Civil Rights Act,
1955- SC & ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989- The Kerala
State Commission for the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes
Act, 2007- Kerala State SC/ST Commission- Protection of Human
Rights Act, 1993- National Human Rights Commission and State
Human Rights Commission- Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and
Senior Citizens Act, 2007- The Rights of Persons with Disabilities
Act, 2016- The Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act, 2019
5. Protection and Safeguarding of Women: Offences against women,
Offences affecting public decency and morality, Dowry Prohibition
Act, 1961- National Commission for Women Act, 1990- Kerala
Women's Commission Act, 1991- National and State Commission for
Women- Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, 2005-
The Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention,
Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013
6. Protection and Safeguarding of Children- Offences against children
Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (POCSO)-
Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015
7. Prevention of corruption and mal-administration- The Prevention of
Corruption Act, 1988- The Central Vigilance Commission Act, 2003-
The Lokpal and Lokayuktas Act, 2013- The Kerala Lok Ayukta Act,
1999
8. Public servant: Definition - Offences by/against public servants
9. The Administrative Tribunals Act, 1985- Central Administrative
Tribunal- Kerala Administrative Tribunal – Composition- Powers
II. Current Affairs (15 Marks)
III. Simple Arithmetic, Mental Ability and Reasoning
(i). Simple Arithmetic (5 Marks)
1. Numbers and Basic Operations
2. Fraction and Decimal Numbers
3. Percentage
4. Profit and Loss
5. Simple and Compound Interest
6. Ratio and Proportion
7. Time and Distance
8. Time and Work
9. Average
10. Laws of Exponents
11. Mensuration
12. Progressions
(ii). Mental Ability & Reasoning (5 Marks)
1. Series
2. Problems on Mathematical Signs
3. Verifying Positions.
4. Analogy- Word Analogy, Alphabet Analogy, Number Analogy
5. Odd man out
6. Numerical Ability
7. Coding and Decoding
8. Family Relations
9. Sense of Direction
10. Time and Angles
11. Time in a clock and its reflection
12. Date and Calendar
13. Clerical Ability
IV. GENERAL ENGLISH
i. English Grammar ( 5 M a r k s )
 Types of Sentences and Interchange of Sentences.
 Different Parts of Speech.
 Agreement of Subject and Verb.
 Articles - Definite and Indefinite Articles.
 Uses of Primary and Modal A u x i l i a r y Verbs
 Question Tags
 Infinitive and Gerunds
 Tenses
 Tenses in Conditional Sentences
 Prepositions
 The Use of Correlatives
 Direct and Indirect Speech
 Active and Passive voice
 Correction of Sentences
 Degrees of Comparison
ii Vocabulary (5 Marks)
 Singular & Plural, Change of Gender, C ollec tive Nouns
 Word formation from other words and use of prefix or suffix
 Compound words
 Synonyms
 Antonyms
 Phrasal Verbs
 Foreign Words and Phrases
 One Word Substitutes
 Words often confused
 Spelling Test
 Idioms and their Meanings
 Expansion and meaning of Common Abbreviations
V. REGIONAL LANGUAGE (10 Marks)
Malayalam
1. പദശുദ്ധി
2. വാക്യശുദ്ധി
3. പരിഭാഷ
4. ഒറ്റപ്പദം
5. പരയായം
6. വിപരീത പദം
7. ൈശൈലിക്ള്‍ പഴഞ്ചൊല്ഞ്ചാല്ലുക്ള്‍
8. സമാനപദം
9. േചേര്‍ത്തൊല്ത്തെഴുതുക്
10.സ്ത്ര ീലിംഗം പുല്ല ിംഗം
11. വചേനം
12. പിരിൊല്ച്ചെഴുതല്‍
13. ഘടക് പദം (വാക്യം േചേര്‍ത്തൊല്ത്തെഴുതുക് )
Kannada
1. Word Purity / Correct Word
2. Correct Sentence
3. Translation
4. One Word / Single Word / One Word Substitution
5. Synonyms
6. Antonyms
7. Idioms and Proverbs
8. Equivalent Word
9. Join the Word
10. Feminine Gender, Masculine Gender
11. Number
12. Sort and Write
Tamil
1)Correct Word
2)Correct Structure of Sentence
3)Translation
4)Single Word
5)Synonyms
6)Antonyms / Opposite
7)Phrases and Proverbs
8)Equal Word
9)Join the Word
10) Gender Classification – Feminine, Masculine
11) Singular, Plural
12) Separate
13) Adding Phrases
NOTE: - It may be noted that apart from the topics detailed
above, questions from other topics prescribed for the educational
qualification of the post may also appear in the question paper.
There is no undertaking that all the topics above may be covered
in the question paper.
********
