KERALA PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION
DETAILED SYLLABUS FOR THE POST OF LAST GRADE SERVANTS / LD CLERK (Sample for testing)
Total Marks: 100   Duration: 1 hour 15 minutes   Medium of questions: Malayalam

Part I. General Knowledge (Marks: 50)
1. History
Kerala - Arrival of Europeans, contributions of Europeans, history of Travancore from Marthanda Varma to Sree Chithirathirunal, social and religious reform movements, national movement in Kerala, literary sources of Kerala history, Kerala after 1956.
India - Political history, establishment of British rule, first war of independence, formation of Indian National Congress, Swadeshi movement, social reform movements, newspapers, literature and arts during freedom struggle, Indian independence movement and Gandhiji, India after 1947, linguistic reorganisation of states.
World - Great Britain, Glorious Revolution, American War of Independence, French Revolution, Russian Revolution, Chinese Revolution, political history after Second World War, UNO and other international organisations.
2. Geography
Basics of geography - Earth structure, atmosphere, rocks, landforms, pressure belts and winds, temperature and seasons, global issues, global warming, various forms of pollution, maps, topographic maps and signs, remote sensing, geographic information system, oceans and its movements, continents, world nations and their specific features.
India - Physiography, states and its features, northern mountain region, rivers, northern great plain, peninsular plateau, coastal plain, climate, natural vegetation, agriculture, minerals and industries, energy sources, transport system.
Kerala - Physiography, districts and its features, rivers, climate, natural vegetation, wildlife, agriculture and research centres, minerals and industries, energy sources, transport system.
3. Economics
National income, per capita income, factors of production, economic sectors of production, Indian economy, economic planning, five year plans, NITI Aayog, new economic reforms, banking, RBI and its functions, public revenue, tax and non-tax revenue, public expenditure, budget, fiscal policy, consumer protection and rights.
4. Civics
Public administration, bureaucracy, features, E-governance, information commission and right to information act, Lokpal and Lokayukta, Indian civil service, state civil service, government: legislature, executive, judiciary, election, political parties, human rights, consumer protection forums, labour and employment.
5. Indian Constitution
Constituent assembly, preamble, citizenship, fundamental rights, directive principles, fundamental duties, important constitutional amendments, Panchayati Raj, constitutional institutions and their functions, emergency, union list, state list, concurrent list.
6. Arts, literature, culture, sports
Visual and audio arts of Kerala, famous Malayalam literary works and authors, Jnanpith award winners from Kerala, important sports events and winners, Olympics, national games.
7. Basic facts of natural science
Human body, food and nutrition, deficiency diseases, communicable diseases, Kerala health care, environment and its problems. Physics: branches, matter, units, force, motion, light, sound, heat. Chemistry: atom, periodic table, metals and non-metals, acids, bases, salts.
8. Current affairs

Part II. Simple Arithmetic, Mental Ability and Test of Reasoning (Marks: 20)
Numbers and basic operations, fractions and decimals, percentage, profit and loss, simple and compound interest, ratio and proportion, time and distance, time and work, average, laws of exponents, mensuration, progressions.
Series, mathematical signs, analogy - word analogy, alphabet analogy, number analogy, odd man out, coding and decoding, family relation, sense of direction, time and angles, time in a clock and its reflection, date and calendar, clerical ability.

Part III. General English (Marks: 10)
Types of sentences and interchange of sentences, different parts of speech, agreement of subject and verb, articles, uses of primary and modal auxiliary verbs, question tags, infinitive and gerunds, tenses, conditional sentences, prepositions, correlatives, direct and indirect speech, active and passive voice, correction of sentences, degrees of comparison, word formation, compound words, singular and plural, synonyms, antonyms, phrasal verbs, idioms and their meanings, foreign words and phrases, spelling test.

Part IV. Regional Language - Malayalam (Marks: 10)
Word purity, sentence correction, translation, single word, synonyms, antonyms, idioms and proverbs, equivalent words, gender, number, compound words, joining the sentence, Malayalam literature authors and works.

Part V. Special topic: IT and cyber laws (Marks: 10)
Basics of computers, hardware and software, internet, social media, e-governance, cyber crimes and cyber laws, IT Act.
